well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about the
u.s canada and safe third countries
because the u.s isn't one anymore i'm so
glad
if you've been watching this channel a
while you might remember me just
railing about something called the safe
third country agreement it was an
agreement between the united states and
canada
and it governed uh immigration policies
it governed specifically asylum seekers
and the way the way it worked was that
if you arrived in the united states
you you set foot in the u.s first you
couldn't claim asylum
in canada at a traditional crossing
now you could go there was a loophole in
it you could go
to some unmanned area and cross into
canada that way
um that wasn't always safe
especially if you were traveling with
kids a lot of those areas are rough
so it became dangerous
this agreement um
was just struck down by a canadian court
they said it was unconstitutional on
their side the basis for that
was that the united states is no longer
a safe third country
they're right they're right for asylum
seekers it is not
it hasn't been for a while um
in the u.s we have a lot of agreements
that we have signed on to a lot of
treaties as we've talked about before
treaties are the law of the land it's
backed up by the constitution
and we've been ignoring them we've been
breaking our own laws
repeatedly
something i was really happy to see the
canadian courts acknowledge
openly was that a lot of these issues
predate the trump administration yeah
trump made him worse
a lot worse as somebody who
was very open in their opposition to
obama's
immigration policies trump's made them
infinitely worse however that
acknowledgement from the canadian court
means a lot because when we finally
start to reform our policies and bring
them back in line
we're not just going to be able to go
back to the status quo not if we want
acceptance in the international
community again
we're going to have to bring them past
what they were which is where they need
to be we need to honor the agreements
that this country entered into
um a lot of asylum seekers have been
illegally
and unconstitutionally denied asylum in
the united states or they've been
detained
or they've been punished all of which is
unconstitutional
all of which is illegal under our own
laws and we've been doing it
for years more than three
okay some of these policies um
extend back to i mean there's actually a
couple that extend back to bush
but they became worse
under obama and then it it
it took on a very ugly face under trump
the canadian court openly acknowledging
this and explicitly saying it predates
the trump administration
is going to require us to get our act
together
so i cannot thank the canadian courts
enough for that
now the fight isn't over this is a huge
win
but the fight isn't over the
canadian government can in theory appeal
this
and and and try to fight it
i don't know the ins and outs of their
legal system the way i do the us's
however i do know their moral system and
i would hope
that they don't i hope they don't appeal
it i hope they understand
that the united states is not a safe
third country anymore
it is behaving like a failed state it is
violating international law
when it comes to the treatment of asylum
seekers
so it appears that our neighbors to the
north
are going to start picking up our slack
and as somebody who has been in that
particular
argument for a long time i cannot
express my gratitude enough
um this is going to save lives period
this will save lives and it's
not a detriment it's not something
that's going to throw open the borders
of canada or anything like that
the asylum process is pretty rigid to
begin with
so the us making it
even more so and trying to deter
asylum seekers not only is it illegal
it's immoral and i'm i'm really happy
to see the canadian government stepping
up in this manner
anyway this this should serve as a
reminder
that yeah we need to get trump out of
there
but even once he's gone we got a lot of
work to do
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night